# REP-0017: Revert Ronin slashing rules to their original state

## Preamble

<pre>
REP-0017
Title: Revert Ronin slashing rules to their original state
Author: Maxbrand99
Type: Standard
Status: Draft
Created: 2024-06-19
</pre>


## Abstract

REP-0017 describes the process of reverting the slashing rules to the original state. When Ronin first moved to DPOS, the slashing rules were changed to be more forgiving, announcement post [here](https://discord.com/channels/930892666705694800/930895348921163786/1094568140593168394), for those unable to see the link, check the image included in this directory.


## Rationale

With the migration from Standard Validators (SVs) to Rotating Validators (RVs) it becomes more important than ever to have strict rules with regards to slashing. The changes to the rules to make them more forgiving made sense when we were starting on DPoS as it allowed us to have more of a room for error with new software. The risks caused by forgiving slashing rules were mitigated by the limit of only 10 SVs being allowed combined with an incredibly high barrier of entry to become one of the SVs (upwards of 8 million RON). With the change to RVs, the barrier for entry is now 1/32 as difficult. I believe that increasing the slashing rules would act as a good deterrent to stop users that should not be running a node (due to lack of technical knowledge).

## Specification

From phucthai in the ronin validator chat: (check UpdatedSlashing.png)

- **Block Miss Penalty:** If a validator misses 50 blocks in a day, it will be slashed and will not receive rewards for that day (similar to the current Tier 1 slashing). In the new design, the slashed validator will also be banned from being selected as a block producer. This eliminates Tier 2 slashing because a slashed validator cannot produce new blocks, thus cannot miss additional blocks.
- **Repeated Slashing Penalty:** If a validator is slashed three times within a seven-day period, it will incur a penalty of 1,000 self-staked RON. This rule aims to penalize validators running on low-spec machines that consistently get slashed.

## Security analysis

This encourages validators to maintain good service and uphold high performance standards for the Ronin chain.

## License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
